Hey there, welcome to the Posit Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Heron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12pm US Eastern Time. If
you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there. I would love to introduce our guests today. They are Isabel
Zimmerman and Davis Vaughan. They are both software engineers here at Posit. I'm going
to let them introduce themselves. Davis, would you go first and tell us a little bit about
what you do and something you like to do for fun?
Sure. Yeah, my name is Davis Vaughan, software engineer at Posit. Things you might know that
I work on are the tidyverse, like currently I'm working on the next large dplyr release.
I am the co-creator of air, which is the R formatter that's used in Positron in RStudio.
And then I also work on most of just the R infrastructure that actually powers Positron.
So that's about me. At home, I'm in my athletic shirt. I really like CrossFit, so I'm generally
in the gym five times a week. That's my de-stressor. It's my barbell therapy, as we like to say,
after a long workday.
Nice. Aw, I used to do powerlifting, and it was the best thing ever, and I miss it every
single day. All right, Isabel, how about you?
Hello, everyone. I am Isabel. I am, what am I working on? So I mostly work on the Positron
IDE. That's probably 99% of my week. So if you have played around with the Python side
of the Positron IDE, I've touched really a lot of things. I primarily work on the Python
experience. I've also built some packages, like the vetiver, and I maintain pins as well.
That is the Python flavors of these packages. If you're familiar with the R side of these
packages, that is Julia Silgi, who maintains those. I am the Python half.
But outside of work, I am actually just on, like, coming back home today, within the last,
like, 12 hours of a tour of being a nerd. So I was in Salt Lake City four days ago for
Dragonsteel Nexus, which is Brandon Sanderson, who's an author. All of his books and everything,
like other sci-fi fantasy books. And then I went from there to Boston, where I was at
PyData. So I was talking about Python data science tools over there. And now I'm home.
So if I act a little like I've been all over the place in the last seven days, it's because
I have. And I am so excited to be here with everybody today.
I was so excited you're here, too. I know when we were talking last week or the week
before, I was like, well, Isabelle, you're going to be loopy when you get to the Hangout
with us. It's been a long road. But yes, I see we have some Sanderson fans, some Cosmere
fans in the chat. I am, too. I'm a huge Cosmere nerd. So getting the three of us together,
because David is, David says, too, is a little dangerous. We'll try to stay on topic for
data science. But if you want to talk about Cosmere books, we are down, all of us.
Okay.
Let me say something. And Isabelle is modest. She was not just talking at PyData in Boston.
She was keynoting at PyData in Boston, which is fantastic.
So modest. Thank you for shouting that out so we can make sure that we all clap. Yes,
I'm seeing emojis in the Zoom. That's amazing. I have given one lightning talk in my life,
and it was the most terrifying thing I ever did. So keynoting, I cannot imagine. Well,
we have so many questions that are already just pouring into Slido. So let's hop over
to Slido. Oh, my gosh, they're coming in in real time in waves. Marcos, you bounced off
of Way of Kings. Try it again. Give it another shot. Give it another shot. I actually bounced
off of Mistborn book, too. It took me a while to get through the middle of it. But then
you get to the end, and you're like, this is why this is amazing. Okay. Well, there
was an anonymous question that came in first. That is fantastic. So let's start there. And
this is for both of you. So I will hop back and forth. It is what does the day in the
life of an open source dev look like? For more established things like the tidyverse,
is it more maintenance work as opposed to something newer like Positron where there
may be newer features to build? I'm going to throw this to Davis first, since tidyverse
was mentioned, because Davis does work on stuff like dplayer and has proposed several
new functions for dplayer in the past year. So he can talk a little bit about that. And
then I will hop over to Isabel. And Davis, feel free to talk about the difference between,
you know, maintaining something like tidyverse and building something new like Positron.
Yeah, so as you were talking, I was just pulling up exactly what you're saying. Let's see.
So yeah, I mean, you know, day in the life of them is not too different. Like, it's a
lot of either rust, or it's R or it's C. It's just kind of whatever is demanded of the current
thing. But like, in terms of what I'm working on, sure, dplayer has its like maintenance
and whatnot. But there's also fun stuff. Like, we're currently working on like, these
two tidyups is what we kind of call them. They're like proposals for new ideas. So we've
been proposing this idea of like filter out as kind of a additional function that goes
with filter. So this is like a new verb for dplayer along with some other vector functions.
We can drop a link in a second if you're interested in these. And then there's another one that's
like all about like recoding data in the tidyverse. So there might be some, there's some new
recoding functions coming like that expand kind of a case when family to these other ideas
about like recoding when you have a lookup table or something like that. So there's lots of
new fun things that beyond just like maintenance work that happened in dplayer. But certainly
everything on the Positron side is new, like it's all very fun stuff. Sometimes it's harder
than the dplayer stuff because it's like this massive like IDE that you have to work on.
But I don't know. It's very different. It's very fun. It's all very unique. Every day
is different.
Yeah. Marcus put in the chat, like one obvious difference is dplayer has less than 80 open
issues and Positron has like 1600 when something is new and also huge. Like an IDE is so different
than a package full of functions. Yeah. That's, I think that's a big difference. Isabel, what
about you? What's a big difference for you between maintaining something that is more
established and building something that is brand new and also like software versus a
package?
Yeah. I think the tooling is very different. And really the size of team is something that
I personally felt like when I was doing vetiver and pins, Python packaging stuff, it was really
like Julia was doing the R side. I was doing the Python side and we were collaborating
in that way, but we were getting a lot of impact. And like mostly what we were deciding
was what we wanted to do and a little bit more from the community. Positron, we also
are super driven by whatever people are giving thumbs up to in GitHub issues. So if you want
to see something get fixed in Positron or a new feature in Positron, giving a thumbs
up to a GitHub issue is like probably the best way to add signal to something. But the
tooling is different. I write TypeScript code, which I had never written for vetiver
or pins before. But it is a lot of, you know, seeing what people are interested in. It's
a lot of Positron is a little bit more set up. Like I had to download a bunch of different
things on my computer to get it all running. And the development cycle is a little bit
slower on a larger project like an IDE, just because there are way more moving parts, you
know, making sure this change doesn't change all of these extensions or the experience
in the console versus, you know, your Python script itself. So just a little bit more of
like larger scope of what to look for when you're making changes.
That's true. Is it a little bit more reactive as well? Because with Positron, it's built
on another framework and there are all kinds of things that might change that are outside
of the scope of your control that you then have to react to to make sure that Positron
still works with them? There's a lot of upstream maintenance that
we do. So Positron is a fork of VS Code and we also have other places where there is an
upstream. So every month we are making changes, not only our changes, but reacting to whatever
Microsoft has done on VS Code. And if you ever look through the Positron repository,
changes are often tens of thousands of lines of code that we have to review every single month.
So there is a maintenance burden, you know, working off of a fork as well and being reactive
to that. Absolutely. All right. Let's hop over to
another question in Slido, which is from Saptarishi. Sap, would you like to ask your question live?
Let's see if Rachel can help me find you. Sorry, I was misspelling as I was typing in
there. You should be unmuted now. Thank you. I was trying to unmute myself
as well. I can't do anything. I think my question is more specifically for Davis,
unless Isabel, you've also worked on R packages. I made my very first R package for the first time
last year. And it's, like, the reason why I got into it was because I had a really, like,
organic thing that I had just grown into. So a lot of functions that I was writing over time,
and I was like, okay, this needs to be brought into a better place. If you guys have worked on
building your own R packages, like, what got you into building it and what were the resources that
you guys relied on? So are you saying, like, what got me into building R packages in the
first place, or is that the question? That is the question, yes. Okay.
I think R packages are just, like, the vehicle for doing really cool things in R.
So it was just this desire to, like, build really neat things. Like, when I started at
Posit, it was RStudio. And when I started then, it was wanting to work with Max Kuhn on, like,
building out tidy models. So he had this big vision of, like, I want to build tidy models.
And I was like, that sounds amazing. Like, I would love to join you. And R packages are just,
like, the vehicle for sharing those kind of, like, things with the community. So
I really enjoy, like, all the tooling that we've built around it. Like, dev tools and use this make
it so easy to get started with an R package. But just being able to share, like, really cool
things with the community is why I love it and why I still do it.
Absolutely. And Isabel, I think that you can probably chime in here with how you got started
with Python package building, too. Yeah. I think mine was more of, like,
a villain origin story where I was doing MLOps at a different company. And, you know, there were
these tools that were made for, you know, moving models around. And it felt like it was more built
for, like, a cloud architect persona rather than a data scientist persona. And Posit at that point
was still called RStudio, but had a job opening for MLOps Python packaging. And I thought, you
know, I've had these exact struggles. So maybe I can be part of the change I want to see in the world.
An excellent reason. Everyone, I really encourage you to go forth and try to build your own package
in either Python or R. Nobody has to see it. You can just build it and do nothing with it and play
with it and say that you built a package. Don't feel like you have to go be too exposed or anything.
I know it makes people nervous going, oh, people will see it. No one actually has to. You don't
have to submit it to Crayon. You don't have to put it on PyPI. You can just make it and show
it to your friends. Thank you so much for that question. Okay. I had one that I found. Here it
is. It is an anonymous question. I'm going to highlight it so it can go to the top.
It is what are your personal tips for working with code bases you're not familiar with or
getting up to speed on inherited, complicated code? And I have thoughts of my own. But we'll
hop back to Davis for this one as well and I'll hop to Isabel after. Do you have any tips, Davis?
He's thinking. He's thinking so hard. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, I was just
I'll share my general tips and then also one new thing. So, like, it's a lot of just, like,
getting in there and looking at the examples and the tests, I feel like, are actually a really
nice way to kind of understand how something works is, like, I go and look at the tests and
I run them and that actually gives me, like, little slices of examples of what the thing
is supposed to be doing. Because often, like, if there are no documentation and, like, a really,
really big package or whatever, like, I just don't know what a certain thing does. But, like,
looking at the tests is often a nice way to get an idea of how this thing is supposed to work.
But recently, like, with all the AI stuff lately, like, Leonel Henry, one of my colleagues,
has been using this thing called DeepWiki a lot, which is, like, you give it a GitHub repo
and it will, like, index the whole thing and then you can just ask it questions and it will, like,
how does XYZ work in this, like, in this package or whatever? And it will give you pretty detailed
answers about how it's supposed to work, even without documentation. Like, it will analyze
the whole repo itself and then give you some kind of, like, documentation that's easy to consume.
So, stuff like that, I think, is actually pretty good use of AI and some kind of, like, how does
this thing work type question, which kind of gets you unstuck a lot of times.
Excellent. Isabel, what do you think? And I'm hoping that we can go find the
DeepWiki link. Somebody put that in the chat for us. Please, please, please.
I got it. Yeah.
All right.
I would have to echo a lot of what David said. I think tests are a great place to start. I also
think perhaps this is obvious, but perhaps it's not to, like, use the thing first and think about,
like, okay, I used this class when I was trying to build this model and then kind of following
the path that you know is most used to help understand kind of framing of what people are
doing. AI is also getting really good at looking at even very large code bases. So, I often will
be, like, can you just explain this to me to, like, Cloud Code or whatever and it does a decent job.
Excellent. And my advice is I have a sticky note that says aggressively ignore in all caps because
I'm a side quester and if I get into a new code base and I'm trying to help somebody debug
something, I get so distracted because I'm, like, oh, I don't know how this whole thing works.
Therefore, it's too overwhelming and I can't figure out anything. But if I aggressively ignore
everything else, and I got this advice from another programmer who gave a talk and I can't
remember his name. So, I'm, like, plagiarizing here. But if I aggressively ignore everything else
and, like, okay, well, I need to fix this one thing and I just use that thing that I need to fix as
the root of my exploration, how do I figure out how just this one thing works, its inputs and
its outputs? I can get through so much more easily and then that gives me a little bit more
context about the entire code base and then I can go from there and branch out. It's kind of, like,
reading a book backwards, but it absolutely works for me. And I had another question here pop up.
It was from Arsenis. I think it's a great one and I have the same question, too. So, Arsenis,
if you are available to ask that one live, I'd love that. I'm going to highlight it in Slido.
Cool. Thank you. And thank you, Davis and Isabelle, for chatting with us today. My question
is about kind of in your work as you work on these tools for people working in R and Python,
how much of what you actually build when it comes to, like, packages and things of that nature
do you write in the respective language that you're writing for? For example, tidyverse for R
when you're writing that stuff, how much of it is in R versus stuff that's in Rust or C++? And
the same for Python. How much of it is in Python and all that versus maybe using other languages
to speed things up or other types of things? This is a great question. I think for packages,
it's way more likely that you're going to be writing Python for Python or R for R.
But when it comes to tools like Positron, especially when it comes to things that are
maybe slightly more language agnostic. So, the actual when you are running Python code in
Positron, that is a lot of Python. But all of the buttons around it and, like, shuffling information
from what you've executed in Python to things like the data explorer involves a lot of JSON
and TypeScript. So, the closer you are to the language, probably the more likely it is that it
is in that language. Davis might have slightly different opinions after building Arc, but in my
world, that is what things generally look like. I have slightly different experience just because
of, like, where, like, the things that I work on. I work on the tidyverse, but I also work on,
like, the low-level parts of the tidyverse, like, vectors, which is a package that has algorithms
that kind of power the rest of the tidyverse. If you look at the GitHub overview of vectors,
the languages inside of vectors, right? It's like, this is an R package, but it's, like, 50-50,
whether it's C or R. So, I am very often working in C, for better or for worse.
My favorite thing is when I do something like my Quarto website or whatever,
throw it up in GitHub, and it's like, you've written a bunch of, like, JavaScript and CSS
and Lua, and I'm like, no, I didn't, but it looks like I did. How impressive is that?
Okay. My community organizer brain or heart just, like, dropped when I saw the screen share,
and then I was like, oh, wait, Davis is sharing something. It's okay.
We're not being taken over on Zoom.
Yeah.
Davis is a co-host, so he can hop on and share anything he likes. All right. Let's talk about
Quarto for a second, because there are so many questions about Quarto. I'm going to roll them
together, if I can. Give me one second here to find stuff in Slido. I feel like most things here
are anonymous today, which is so rare. So, there was one that was around, oh,
are you looking for, like, the air and autocomplete one?
Yes. It seems like air doesn't work inside code chunks in Positron when making Quarto documents.
Is this on the roadmap? That sounds like a bug to me. And then there's a follow-up one that's,
you know, is it possible to change the Python Quarto formatter in Positron without using an
extension? I think that these are very similar questions. Davis, would you like to attempt that
one? Or, you know, both of these rolled together? I might have to ask you about the second one
again whenever we get to there. But the first one, as long as you're in Positron in a Quarto
document, in source mode, not in visual mode, it should work. Air should work. You may have to,
like, there's some documentation on our website about the fact that you have to set, like,
format on save to true for Quarto documents in particular. But it should work. I'll go on to
the second question. So, the second question was, is it possible to change the Python formatter
in Quarto without using an extension? And that's possibly the exact same solution is to turn on
format on save. Yeah. Isabel, do you want to answer? Or is it just, like, you don't want to
use rough and you want to use something else? You should be able to use the command palette. So,
if you do, like, command shift P, and then if you type in format, I don't remember the exact command,
but, like, if you type in format, there should be something where it's, like, configure formatter.
And if you have a formatter extension installed, you should be able to swap it. I don't know that
you can change it without an extension installed. It's possible that you can, and I do not know
about it. But I personally have not done that before. The main thing to know is that, like,
if you want Python formatting to be different in Quarto, you configure your Python formatter,
and Quarto will just use that, as long as you've also told Quarto to actually format your files.
Correct. It's going to inherit whatever your overall Python language formatter is. And for
anybody who would like to know how to do that, Isabel and Davis actually joined me on the Data
Science Lab, which we're doing on Tuesdays, and we walked through Positron settings, like, a really
friendly intro. If you've never done it, if you've never set your own key bindings,
if you haven't explored formatting with ARINRUF, which is, you know, all bundled into Positron,
you just have to enable it. That episode will go up on YouTube by the end of this week. So,
you know, look at my LinkedIn. I will probably share something about that. It will be in a Data
Science Lab playlist that's in the Posit channel, just like we have the playlist for the Data
Science Hangout. Okay. I have a question from Renato, and I would love if you could ask that
live, and we can start with Isabel on this one. Thank you, Libby. Yeah. Well, you guys are
fortunate that you work on things for a living that we kind of work on for fun in our own time,
and I was wondering if you have so what are your side projects if you work on cool things all day,
and what do those look like? Thank you. Yeah. So, I think one of the things that I have done
in the past, I haven't been as active in the last quarter or so, but I was part of PyOpenSci,
as they do a rotational editor in chief. So, being part of that Python science community,
it's peer-reviewed packages. So, for folks who, you know, want to learn how to build packages,
and then, like, want to have someone to walk through and make sure, you know, their documentation
looks good, and just kind of building a community around that. So, there's something called
ROpenSci, which is the R flavor of this. So, that was really fun. I have an even more fun,
I'm going to share my screen. Don't be scared, Rachel. I just redid my website, and it's a
website, and it's very exciting to me. So, I drew everything, and these are all little buttons.
And so, my most fun one is I did, like, a Spotify-wrapped type of thing for what I'm reading.
It's not the most beautiful thing right now, but I had a lot of fun. So, this was my fun time.
You can also, like, peck the cat and it meows. So, it looks terrible on mobile. Don't judge what
it looks like on mobile. Oh, my gosh. Can you share the link in the chat? Like, I would love
that. Okay. So, Davis, we'll talk to you. Fun projects. Isabel, please share in the chat.
I love this. I always want to, like, paint or draw my own things for my
website, too, and I'm, like, don't have the patience. You're an inspiration.
I'm very boring in comparison. I actually don't do that many, like, data sciency projects outside
of work. Like, work is very fun, and I like to spend time, like, at work doing work stuff that
I really enjoy, and I really am blessed to get to do that. But outside of work, I don't do that much,
like, art-related things. Like, I spend a lot of time, like, at the gym, like I said,
but I also read a lot, like, love the Cosmere-type books, and you'll just find me with one of those
books all the time. Very little computer stuff outside of work. Cool. Thanks.
Thanks, Renata, for the good question, and I'm, nobody asked me, but I also, like, love doing
side projects, but also tend to not do them in R. I do have a couple of side projects that I've
worked on in R and Python, but I figured since we're talking about books, I would shout out that,
like, my, somebody asked me my favorite data science project I've ever done, and it's actually,
I analyzed the first books, the first 11 books of The Wheel of Time, because I'm a Wheel of Time
fan, too. So, I did an NLP analysis of gendered entities. I did a power and submissiveness
comparison. It was so much fun. There's so much more to do on it, but I just got, like,
really, really blessed to take an NLP self-study course or independent study course with one of my
IS professors in grad school, and it was so much, so much fun. Okay. Let's hop over to our Slido.
And forgive me for a second while I go and mark Renato's as answered, and we move on.
Kylie, you had asked a question. Would you like to hop in and ask that live?
And Kylie, we've missed you. Kylie went to Australia.
Yes. And her time zone completely changed. Yeah. I now live in Australia, but I'm back in Europe,
so I can join. Anyway, my question is about documentation. So, there are some awesome
packages out there, but some of them have really crappy documentation, and so I was just wondering
how you both approach writing documentation, specifically because the person who's designing
the package can often be not the best person to understand the target user's needs.
I will let Isabelle hop in with this one. She looks like she's thinking.
Okay. I think I have a bad answer, which is it's a skill, and it helps if you just
write a lot, and then especially, like, explaining it to a coworker or a friend or a dog of, like,
how would I show someone this package? Like, if I had a reprex or, like, your reproducible example,
what would I give to somebody to, like, do the most common path through this package?
So, I think, like, the idea of a getting started page, which is I mean that is essentially what a
getting started page is, is often, like, the most important page on all of your documentation
for people who are just discovering a package. I use tools like Cordodoc. So, if you're familiar
with the Python land of, like, Sphinx, this is kind of like Sphinx, but it uses Cordo websites,
which I am Cordo's number one fangirl. So, I think having the right tooling that makes
writing docs accessible and feel easier for you really helps as well. I was not a huge RST fan,
so being able to find a tool that made writing docs a little bit easier felt good. But I think,
yeah, giving somebody something they could just copy and paste to get started and just a little
bit of prose around it. This is maybe another place where AI is helpful to be, like, hey,
imagine you're a beginner who's never heard of this before. Does this documentation make sense?
Or what am I missing? I think are good places to start if you don't have someone
to pair through documentation with.
Yeah, I love it. It's like when you build a chart and you're, like, I understand this. Give this to
your partner and be, like, hey, no background. Do you understand this? And if they have no
clue what's going on, you have a pretty good idea that you need to make some changes.
Davis, how about you?
It's certainly a skill. And, like, the places where I felt like I had to exercise the skill
when I was starting, like, vignettes, like, this type of getting started, like, page.
But, like, there's two things that I really like about writing vignettes.
One is that I feel like I step back and I have to, like, write a story,
kind of. Like, the best vignettes to me are when they have, like, one data set and you go through,
like, 10 different things in the package that you can do with that one data set.
So, the user isn't, like, context switching between, like, what the data actually is
behind the scenes. And they can focus only on, like, what are you trying to teach them
about this package and how it works. And then the other thing that I really like about vignettes is
that it kind of proves to me where I have holes. Like, there's, like, holes in dplyr if, like,
as you're writing the vignette, you're sitting there going, why is this so hard? Like, I can't
figure out exactly how to write this or it's really hard to explain. If it feels hard to
explain, we've probably just done it wrong. And that gives you a good chance to go back and be,
like, let me try this again. Yeah. I like my advice is do some teaching
and just get good at teaching. And that will help you see where the holes are in understanding for
people because you will explain something and they will say, wait, what does that mean? And
you're, like, oh, I skipped context. And you'll start to notice the places where you're skipping
context when you're writing documentation. But, yeah, I feel like the best thing is have somebody
else write your documentation who's not you, who's not an engineer, who didn't build it.
Because then they will ask you every single question for every single gap in knowledge.
And it will end up being great. Or just have somebody review it if you can.
Excellent question, Kylie. Thank you so much. And it's so good to see you. We had one in Slido
that was anonymous. And it has risen to the top here. It is what are interesting trends in data
science that you're noticing? And there was a little follow up on it because you can add replies
in Slido that says I've noticed that people are coding more using multiple languages and a workflow
rather than just solely coding in R or Python. And I noticed that I do that myself as well. I'm,
like, oh, I know this better tool in Python or this better tool in R. And because I'm in
Positron and it's so easy to do both, I will combine them. Do either of you have
thoughts about trends in data science that you're noticing?
I have a micro trend that is Python specific where people are pulling out Pandas as a dependency.
So, a lot of times in Python, like, plotting libraries, modeling libraries, you would have
your default data frame to be Pandas. And so, you would carry this around as a dependency.
But with the rise of new tools like pollers, which is way faster and, like, rust backed,
not everybody is using Pandas all the time. So, there's actually this really cool tool called
narwhals that you can it's, like, data frame agnostic. So, a lot of people are, you know,
well, I guess, removing Pandas and putting narwhals in its place. But just a little bit
of, like, shifting to allowing people to have more options, which is probably really similar
to this multiple languages trend where, you know, people are learning that there's so many cool
tools out there and being given the option to use them for the right task. That is a very,
very niche Python trend that I've been seeing a lot.
Awesome. Davis, any trends or micro trends that you're seeing?
Yeah. I think, to me, it's, like, opinionated tools are, like, where it's at. Like,
rough and air are very opinionated, but, like, very well loved. And then, like,
UV is, like, another thing that's, like, it's got some opinionated things behind it. But,
like, they have just crushed it in, like, terms of virtual environment management and package
management in Python. And, like, it very much feels like we need something similar in R that's,
like, also very opinionated, but then just, like, crushes it in terms of, like, you know,
it's outside of R. It's a command line tool that's opinionated. And I don't know. That feels
like where it's at in terms of, like, tooling lately. Yeah. And RV does exist, but I haven't
used it yet. If anybody has used RV and has opinions about it, please hop in the chat and
let me know. All right. Well, speaking of trends in data science, we had another anonymous question
that was how you leverage AI in your work. So, do you leverage it? Testing? Helping you figure
things out? Learning? What are your thoughts on AI? And I will let whoever would like to go
first go first here. Let's see who unmutes first. David. Yeah. All right. Let's see.
How do I put this shortly? I used to be, like, a big AI skeptic. I didn't use it very much. I
didn't want to. And I still don't use it a ton. But I do find, like, I get a decent amount of
value of Cloud Code when I ask it in very certain ways to do things. Like, I always have it make a
plan first, and then we can, like, reevaluate the plan together before it actually does any work.
Like, I find that I get a ton of value doing it that way. I use it to write tests. I use it to
rubber duck quite a bit. I use it for things that are just, like, more monotonous tasks. I don't
really let it go haywire in terms of, like, writing an entire new, like, dplyr function for me or
anything that typically requires too much, like, overall architectural knowledge and thought than
what I can explain to Cloud. But I do use it. It's just not, like, for everything all the time.
It's not, like, it doesn't feel like it's, like, replacing me. It just feels like it's enhancing me.
I like that. And I'm still in the AI skeptic curmudgeon camp that I just sort of, like,
grapple with that all the time. So I do use it, but sparingly in the right ways and the right,
the stuff that feels comfortable for me. Isabel, how about you?
Yeah, I think my intro to AI was using it for tests because that felt like a well-scoped,
safe place to start with AI. As I used it more, I feel like my most successful use cases
are places where I know exactly what the code was going to look like, but maybe it's, like,
quite broad. Broad and, like, multiple files, many lines of code, but I know exactly how I'd
want to structure it. And, like, AI can type faster than I can. So being able to review the
code that I knew what it was already going to look like is way easier. There is this, like,
weird changing of, you know, like, burden of, you know, are you more of a reviewer now than somebody
who codes if you use AI all the time? And I think, like, maybe in some ways I've gotten better at
reviewing code now that I do it slightly more often as I review AI code. But I also try not to
let it just go haywire. And it is a dangerous game if you're sending your colleagues code that you
haven't looked at. Like, that doesn't seem like a good way to practice or a good standard of
practice for anybody. But, yeah, I think there's definitely places where I really enjoy it and I
think it's useful. But I would not let it go off on its own. I would not vibe code in prod. Maybe
for a side project. But that's kind of where I stand. Yeah. I like using it for stuff that I know
how to do but I don't want to do. Where I'm like, ugh, I need to make a diagnostic plot and I don't
remember this exact GM and I'm really bad at GM tile. So, like, do it for me. And I know what it's
supposed to look like and I can read it and know that it's not going to run or it's going to run.
That's what I do. Somebody mentioned rubber ducking in our documentation conversation. So,
I would introduce my duck, which is, like, the cutest possible rubber duck. Some of them are not
very cute. Very cute that my friend Mary gave me. I think he's Munchkin brand if you would like your
own rubber duck. But his name is Rocket. Yeah, Kelly just asked, does your duck have a name?
Absolutely. His name is Rocket. Like Raccoon. All right. I would love to hop in and ask one
very quick question because somebody mentioned it and I forgot to say something. Davis, we need to
know about your hexes on your back wall because they're so super cool. What are they? Who made
them? My wife made these. Yeah, my wife made these for my birthday last year. A-plus wife. A-plus.
They're wooden and they're about the size of your hand and they're very cool. There are
packages that I have either created or worked on over the years and she did a fantastic job.
I've asked for more. That is amazing. I've asked for more, but she said that, like, some of them
just, like, painstaking detail. Yeah. And she's like, I will never do another one of those. Like,
the ones, of course, the ones that are, like, are my favorite and that I want more of because
she's like, they were horrible to do. This is your fault for making for the air one being way
too complicated because when I think about a hex that I would not want to paint, it's air.
I have those, like, six or eight inch wooden hexes in one of my shopping carts online and
it's been there for, like, two years because I have wanted to do this for a really long time
and I haven't. So that's fantastic inspiration. If your wife ever wants to blog about that,
hit me up. She could do it on my blog. It's exciting. Okay. Well, I would love to
get in at the 45 minute mark. We have 15 minutes left and ask a question that we always try to ask,
which is career advice. If you were going to give somebody a piece of career advice who was
in a similar position as you in data science or in engineering for data science, what would it be?
And I will put Isabel on the spot first.
Yeah, I know you had prepped us that this question is coming and I feel like I've had a lot of,
like, cheesy one-liners that go through my head about it. So I'm going to cheat and have two
small pieces of advice. One of them is just quoting you, is stop networking, start making
friends. I think it is, like, the most beautiful thing. Like, at PyData, I just sat and, like,
nerded out with somebody about crafts for so long. And, like, she's the leader. It's Faye.
She's the leader of PyLadies Boston. Coolest human being ever. And also makes really fun, like, art.
And I think having those, like, genuine fun community connections are amazing. And also
doing it scared. You know, like, if you're scared of, like, I don't know how to write a package.
That's fine. Like, do it scared. No one's going to judge you. And if they do, like, that's on
them. That's not on you. So try it anyway. Don't, you know, don't worry about being bad at things.
That's the beauty of being a beginner. So just do it scared.
Do it scared. And you don't have to do it alone. Also, like, we have the Discord server.
And I'm going to put a link again. This link is good for the next, like, five hours or so. Go
and join. It's such a safe and happy place to share the stuff that you're working on and ask
questions. And, like, it's so much safer than Twitter or, you know, LinkedIn, where you're,
like, oh, this feels a little unsafe. It's huge. Put it on the Discord server. You can tag me in
and I'll look at it and tell you what I think or encourage you. It's so worth doing. All right.
Davis, how about you?
Yeah. So mine is stolen. Stolen from Hadley, actually. He has said before that he purposefully
made a decision a number of years ago to just be nice to people. Like, in his he gets GitHub
comments and issues all the time that are, like, people being super frustrated with something,
super upset, like, mad at him kind of thing. And, like, he has the ability to, you know,
say whatever he wants back. But he always takes a moment and is just nice. Like, he's just nice
to these people in return. Because, like, you never know exactly when that is going to, like,
who's going to see that message. Like, what kind of community is going to be built around that.
Like, he's in a position of a lot of, like, influence these days. And just by being nice,
he's been able to, like, have that trickle down throughout the entire, like,
our Entity First community. Like, we all feel like this community is very nice. And I think
a lot of that is in part of people being at the top, like, are also just very nice people.
Him and Tarif and JJ are all just fantastic people to be around and hear from. They're
all just super nice. And if you want more of that, then you should do that, too, kind of thing.
Yes. Be the change you want to see in the world. And I also
this is something that I don't know if people really realize. But when someone looks at your
LinkedIn profile, especially if you don't post very much original posts of your own,
the very first thing they see is a gallery of the comments that you leave on other people's
LinkedIn posts. So if they are seeing a gallery of mean, nasty comments that you've left,
that is your calling card to the digital world. Not a great look. It's not good.
But what that also means is go be nice to people. Go be the person that other people
want to work with. Because if you're on LinkedIn to find a job, that's what you want, right?
I put a as a sort of like housekeeping, we were at the end of our show thing. I put a poll in
Slido as well. And it is anonymous. Nobody will see your answer. But it is, hey, we're working on
end of year survey for the Hangout. And I would love to know what you want to know about the data
community so that I can help ask some of those questions. And then that means next year, we will
have some of those answers. We can get as many people as we can to answer our survey. And,
you know, be as nosy as you like. They can be funny questions. They can be very serious ones.
Go nuts. Please let me know what you think. I will leave that poll open. But you can also
continue asking in the Q&A. So we have 10 minutes left. And I want to hop over to a question that I
have in Slido that is anonymous. And it says data science and infrastructure really interest me.
But it's so easy to get discouraged or feel like I'm beating my head against a brick wall
when something goes wrong. How can I be more resilient and keep coming back to it? Coming
back to data science, coming back to infrastructure, even when it is really, really hard.
And I will throw this one into Davis first. Putting you in the hot seat at different intervals here.
It is hard. I mean, it's hard when especially when, like, it's a project that you're not
necessarily that interested in and you're having issues with it. So, like, if it's a project that
you're, like, would love to see this thing completed, like, I feel like it's a lot easier
to, like, learn the thing that you're struggling with. Like, you're willing to spend the time
because you, like, have a feeling that the outcome is going to be worth it. So, like, my only advice
there is try to find things that, like, really interest you if you're also learning something
new at the same time. And, like, kind of coincide those together if possible. It is very hard if,
like, you're just not that interested in the thing and you're struggling with it. Like, that's,
I'm sorry, that really sucks if that's the case. Like, that's very hard to learn something new.
I agree. Isabelle, you have any words of wisdom?
I like to think of my code as, like, it's a living document, you know? It's a living tool.
It's going to change over time. And, you know, like, I've gotten some bad haircuts, you know? So,
like, if you write code and you have to take it back out later, like, oops, your code got a bad
haircut. The hair will grow back. We'll fix it. So, I think realizing that things will change.
You're going to write bugs. You're going to write amazing things as well. And, you know,
the only way, it's cheesy. It's cheesy. It's bad. But, like, the only way to truly fail at it is if
you stop and then you never come back. So, keep going. I saw the reply of someone's, like,
at some point your forehead is stronger than the brick wall. And I love that. I think that's
amazing. That's amazing. At some point your skin is thicker. I think Edward had said as a comment
to learn to love the sandpaper feeling of brick on your forehead is the first part of that. And
it's true. Like, sometimes you can start to feel that, like, oh, no, this is really hard feeling.
And if you've been through it enough, you'll be like, oh, that means it changes around the corner.
That no longer means that it's, you know, impossible forever. And I think Jenny, Brian,
in her Hangout episode, said, like, you know, time box it or bound this into a thing so it's
not just, like, this is misery forever. This is impossible forever. Like, give yourself a
self-contained problem to work on. As a person who teaches adults to code, I will tell you that
learning things and sucking at them as an adult is hard. Like, we've lost our sucking at things
muscle because when we're kids, we suck at everything we're learning and nobody cares.
So think about learning a new language that's a spoken language. Little kids don't care that
they say things wrong. Little kids don't care that they only speak in incomplete sentences.
Little kids aren't shamed for, you know, talking in sentences that are sort of caveman-like,
right? Like, what it doing, how it doing that, right? As we're learning a new language, a spoken
language as an adult, we beat ourselves up if we have to talk like that because we think that we
need to have a discussion about profound topics. We need to be able to talk about astronomy and
the arts and all of these things. No, you just have to learn to speak in those basic sentences.
Be so much nicer to yourself and also don't do it alone. Go make friends. Go join the Discord,
hang out on Blue Sky. Don't do it by yourself. Okay, we are reaching the very last moments of
our wonderful hangout today. It's been so fun. We have about five minutes left,
so let's hop into one more question here. And it is, let's see,
we had a couple that I thought I could fit in at the very end.
Marcus is asking about keyboard preferences, which is a cheat. I don't know if either of you
are keyboard people, but I am, and he knows it. Isabelle and Davis, are you keyboard people
really quickly while I'm finding my question? I have purple switches. I actually don't know
which one, but I have a keyboard tester and I think I'm going to get, I think it's called like
golden banana or something. Marcus knows which one it is. There is a specific thing where you
can get like a panel of like 25 or a hundred different keyboard switches and it's just one
key and you can try it out. I have mine. I actually, I don't know if I can find it in
the amount of time we have left, but I have one and I'll post it somewhere maybe.
Okay, cool. I have two Gateron testers that are pretty small, like a regular profile,
and a low profile. And the switches that I am putting into a board as we speak are the Gateron
Rupier floats, which are a collaboration. They're tactile. I really, really like them.
And I got them pre-lubed because I just can't, I just do not have the patience. I have the
lubricant. I just do not have the time. Davis, are you a keyboard person?
No, I'm blissfully ignorant. So that whole conversation just went so far.
No worries. That conversation was so niche and it was for like two people. And if you
are those people, you know who you are. But I found my question. It was from Natasha.
Natasha has a little asterisk, so I'm going to ask this for her, but it's a great question.
It's what is the best way to report bugs in packages? I'd imagine that it's best to include
a small example of the issue, but I'm not sure how to do that. So I'm going to ask Natasha.
I'd imagine that it's best to include a small example of the issue, but I'm not sure where I
would go to bring attention to it. What a great question, Natasha. Davis, would you like to go
first? Yeah. So we'll drop some links,
but there's a package for helping you create reproducible examples called reprex. So that
will help you create the thing that you need to share, but then where to share it. Like if you
have an issue with dplyr, for example, like you can go to dplyr's issue page on GitHub and you'll
just see like a whole bunch of issues. So you can open a new issue, drop in your reproducible example
right there. And we love to hear things like that. We want to know when things are wrong. We want to
know when it doesn't do something that you would hope it would do. That's how we learn like what
the gaps are inside of dplyr or inside of the tidyverse and it's how we build it out to be
kind of what you guys need. Fantastic. I think that covers it. Isabel, do you have any add-ons?
If not, totally okay. No, I think that covers it. As long as you have something that we can like
copy paste and reproduce the example and clear steps, that's going to make it 1000% easier to
solve your problem. Sweet. And there's one more question that I think we can pop in right at the
end here, 60 seconds each. And it's from Frank Kovacs. Frank, I'm going to read it for you because
we're at the end of our line here. It's how does full-time open source dev work compare to
full-time in-house dev work? Have you done both? Is there a difference? If you haven't, that's
totally okay, too. Isabel, have you done one or the other? Open source since the beginning.
Open source since the beginning. Okay. I've been like primarily open source. Like
Positron, of course, there's like kind of workbenchy implications and then kind of
open sourcey implications. So, we straddle that line a lot. I would say it's quite similar.
I have felt like more the size of the team matters necessarily more than open source,
not open source. Smaller teams are probably going to work a little faster if you have less process.
Larger teams, you might have like QA steps or something like that. So, I would say it's more
size of the team than where your code is after. Sweet. And since we got that in really quickly,
I will pop in one last more because I think somebody asked, do you have any tips for getting
started with Positron? And I will say, go watch our data science lab episode, but do you have
any quick tips as we go? They're thinking, we're putting you on the spot over and over today.
Go ahead, Davis. There's lots of fun extensions out there. Like I think adding the fun theming
and stuff that makes it just look really cool is just like a fun way to get started. And it kind of
shows you how like unique and customizable this thing is and particularly in compared to our
studio. Like it's really quite fun once you get started with Positron. It's just a fun place to
be and work in. It is. I would say learn how to open up the command palette. If you know how to,
it's command shift P or there's like the little search bar at the top and you can like click that
and it gives you a bunch of options. That is your guiding light throughout all of Positron.
And that would be my one tip for everyone who's getting used to it.
That's it. That's the bridge of the enterprise y'all. Everything happened there. And you can
type in a word that is like mostly like what you're looking for and it's going to help you
figure it out. So if you want to have fun, open up Positron, command shift P, and then type in
theme and go up and down and change your themes. That's the most fun thing to do for me in any IDE.
Also go into your settings in the search bar and settings, type in RStudio and turn on the RStudio
key bindings. Your life will be better if you're coming from RStudio and you would like to do both
in Positron. Okay. This was a fantastic time. I hope that you answered my awesome poll in Slido.
If you didn't, that Slido link is still working. Please, please, please go answer that poll. If
you did not have time to do it and oh my gosh, thank you all so much for hanging out. You're
going to love our last hangout of the year is coming up and it's Josh Starmer of StatQuest.
If you are like me, you stan Josh Starmer. You love and watch Josh Starmer. So please come meet
him. Ask him all the questions. Isabel and Davis, thank you so much for hanging out with us. You
want to say goodbye to everybody Isabel? Bye. Thanks for having me. This was a delight.
Awesome. Yeah. Thanks for having us. It's been a great time. Nice to talk to you all.
Thanks for hanging out. I'll get Davis and Isabel's episode of the Data Science Lab
up soon on YouTube. So look forward to that and we'll see you next week on Thursday or at
Tuesday at the Data Science Lab because Marcos is joining us. Bye everybody.